DSS 2.0 Relase notes
#####################

.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Version 2.0.4 - August 31th, 2015
======================================

.. warning::

	For migration from DSS 1.X, please see the DSS 2.0.0 release notes

DSS 2.0.4 contains bug fixes

UI
---

Fix layout of SQL and R recipe editors

Security
--------

* Flag login cookies as HTTP-only
* Fix missing access control on export internal API
* Fix path traversal in "logs" internal API (accessible only to admin)
* Fix a few GET/POST mismatches
* Add new security-related options

	* Option to force usage of Secure cookies
	* Option to disable error stacks
	* Option to disable version strings

Version 2.0.3 - August 20th, 2015
======================================

.. warning::

	For migration from DSS 1.X, please see the DSS 2.0.0 release notes

DSS 2.0.3 contains both bug fixes and new features

New Features
-------------

* DSS can now read and perform advanced extraction on XML files. Please see :doc:`/connecting/formats/xml` for more information.

* DSS is now compatible with MongoDB 3.0

Bug Fixes
----------

Datasets
%%%%%%%%%%

* It is now possible to read and write from S3 buckets without the permission to list the buckets on the account.

* Small UI fixes

Recipes
%%%%%%%%%

* Preparation recipe: fixed some corner cases with cross-project recipes
* Outer join is not possible with the "DSS internal" engine and is therefore not suggested anymore
* Fixed some issues with Oracle on visual recipes
* Fixed mass actions in Grouping recipe
* Several fixes with the filter editor
* Fixed some small UI issues
* Since Oracle identifiers are limited to 30 characters, DSS will now try to limit the size of column names it generates in visual recipes
* Fixed a display bug in "Stack" recipe

Hadoop
%%%%%%%

* Fixed Hive recipes when "TextFile" is not the default Hive storage format

Machine learning
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

* Fixed regression with H2O models
* Fixed an issue with computation of RMSLE measure which could break models
* Fixed the "Keep my settings" button
* Fixed the filters on the "Predicted data" view
* Fixed failure of scoring recipes in some cases with date columns
* Fixed important issue with boolean variables that could be wrongly handled, leading to invalid results
* Fixed issue with large number of clusters (>100)
* Fixed regression on random forest with manually-entered multiple number of trees

Administration
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

* Fixed UI issues in scheduler
* Fixed saving of allowed groups in connections

Version 2.0.2 - June 23rd, 2015
======================================

.. warning::

	For migrations from DSS 1.X, please see the DSS 2.0.0 release notes

DSS 2.0.2 contains both bug fixes and new features

New Features
-------------

* New "Fold multiple columns by prefix" processor. See :doc:`/preparation/reshaping` for more information

* You can now "redeploy" a training recipe and a saved model from an analysis. This allows you to change the settings of the model without having to "replug" the Flow to a new saved model.

* The "Geo-Join" processor can now output distance as miles

* Minor UX improvements

Important change: MySQL column names
--------------------------------------

The behaviour of MySQL datasets has been changed. The MySQL connector will now automatically use column names specified by "AS" aliases in SQL queries.

So for example, "SELECT a AS b FROM table" will now yield a dataset with a column named "b", while it was previously named "a".

To revert to the old behaviour, go to the settings of the MySQL connection, and add the property: "useOldAliasMetadataBehavior" = "false".

This change only affects versions 5.1 and above of the MySQL JDBC driver. For more information, please see: http://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/en/connector-j-installing-upgrading-5-1.html

Bug fixes
----------

Datasets
%%%%%%%%%

* Empty Zip files are now properly handled
* Fixed an issue with multi-file JSON datasets

Recipes
%%%%%%%%

* Fixed some data parsing issues in the Grouping recipe
* Fixed handling of booleans in the Grouping recipe on PostgreSQL
* Fixed SQL recipes on custom JDBC connections

Hadoop
%%%%%%%

* Improved the behavior of the Hive integration with Sentry. Authorizing file:/// URIs is not required anymore, and integration with the HDFS ACL synchronization now works properly

* Fixes for exotic Hive options ("fixed-metastore" DataNucleus mode)

* Fixed validation of some Hive recipes on MapR

Misc
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

* It's now possible to disable probability columns in multi-class classification recipes
* Fixed features hashing
* Fixed notebook export for Spectral Clustering models
* Updated URI for the IUS repository
* Various small UI fixes


Version 2.0.1 - June 10th, 2015
======================================

.. warning::

	For migrations from DSS 1.X, please see the DSS 2.0.0 release notes

DSS 2.0.1 is a bugfix release


Recipes and Flow
-----------------

* Fixed bad initial settings for partitioned recipes
* Small UI improvements
* DSS now includes its own version of the Graphviz tool: fixes Flow layout on CentOS 6

Datasets
----------

* Fixed the "Advanced" settings display for filesystem datasets
* Fixed the "Explore" view for datasets imported from other projects
* Fixed reading multiple JSON files with root path for elements.

Machine Learning
-----------------

* Text handling: fixed display of the vocabulary for the Count and TF/IDF vectorizers
* Avoid doing grid search when not needed in various alogrihtms
* Fixed custom scoring function for regression problems
* Fixed error when trying several number of trees in Random Forest
* Fixed wrong results in scoring recipes when "drop rows" is selected for missing values handling

Dashboard and insights
-----------------------

* Fixed loading of nvd3.js
* Fixed issues with settings of the insights miniatures
* Fixed an issue with the hexagonal binning parameter (was not saved)

Version 2.0.0 - May 19th, 2015
======================================

DSS 2.0.0 is a major upgrade that brings new exciting features and a redesigned user experience.

Migration notes
---------------

.. warning::

	Migration to DSS 2.0 from a previous DSS 1.X instance requires some attention.

	To migrate to DSS 2.0, you must first upgrade your instance to the latest 1.4 version. See :doc:`/release_notes/1.4`

Automatic migration from Data Science Studio 1.4.X is supported, with the following restrictions and warnings:

* Previously trained machine learning models must be retrained
* As a consequence, machine learning models deployed directly in Flow without a retraining recipe
  won't be usable anymore for scoring. You will need to retrain the model in an Analysis, redeploy it to Flow, and replug a scoring recipe.
* If you use cross-projects recipes, you need to perform some adjustements detailed below


How to update ML models in Flow
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

If you have ML models in Flow, you need to retrain them before they are usable again.


How to update cross-projects recipes
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

In DSS 1.X, if you had access to projects A and B, then all datasets from project A could be directly used in project B. However, you had to create the recipe "manually".

In DSS 2.X, the default behaviour has changed: only datasets from project A that are explicitly "exposed to project B" can be used, and they directly appear on the Flow of project B.

You can either:

* Go to the project settings of project A and "expose" the required datasets to project B
* Go to Administration > Settings > Misc and change the "Cross-projects access to datasets" behaviour.

Furthermore, by default, recursive builds now "stop" at project boundaries. You can change this behaviour on a per-dataset basis, and you can also change the default global behaviour in Administration > Settings > Misc.

Preparation and machine learning
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

On upgrade, all previous preparation scripts and machine learning model benches will be converted to the new Analysis component

How to upgrade
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

It is **strongly recommended** that you perform a full backup of your Data Science Studio data directory prior to starting the upgrade procedure.

Hadoop support
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

This release removes support for CDH 4

External libraries upgrades
----------------------------

Several external libraries bundled with DSS have been bumped to major revisions. Some of these libraries (most notably Pandas include some *backwards-incompatible* changes). You might need to upgrade your code.

Notable upgrades:

* Pandas 0.14 -> 0.16. Breaking changes notably around categoricals. See http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/release.html
* Scikit-learn 0.14 -> 0.16


New features
-------------

User experience
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

The user experience of DSS has been redesigned based on the feedbacks from our users.

* Thanks to the organization in universes, you'll always find what you need at your fingertips.
* The new sidebar gives you immediate access to all actions in context.
* A redesigned search that gives you immediate access to your recent items and contextually-relevant objects
* The streamlined Flow lets you focus on what matters most and reduces visual clutter
* Use checklists to organize your collaborative work in projects

Analysis and data preparation
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

The new "Analysis" module is where you'll perform all visual analysis on a dataset. It combines the power of visual data preparation, drag-and-drop visualizations and guided machine learning.

You can now create new features using visual data preparation and immediately use them in machine learning models.

Data preparation now features a "Column-oriented view" for immediate glances on your dataset and easy mass actions.

New processor: currency converter (supports 40 currencies with historical data)

Machine learning
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

The machine learning component has been completely rehauled. It now features:

* Advanced cross-validation policies:

  * K-Fold cross validation

  * Explicit train and test sets

* Completely redesigned model assessment pages, with much deeper insight into the performance your models

* Parallel grid search for semi-automatic optimization of models

* New feature generation options

* Text processing options: count, TF-IDF and hashing vectorizers, with support for stop words and n-grams

* Binarization and quantization of numerical variables

* Models in Flow are now versioned and you can choose how to switch to new versions

* Built-in data preparation without prior materialization of the prepared datasets

Visual recipes
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Several new visual recipes let you do more and more advanced data manipulation without writing a single line of code:

* "Join" recipe (with multi-dataset, multi-key joins, fuzzy joins, case-insensitive joins, ...)
* "Split" recipe
* "Union" recipe to concatenate datasets
* Redesigned "Grouping" recipe

Easter eggs
%%%%%%%%%%%%

Will you find all our new easter eggs ?
